Life in the fast lane

Anthony Tan
Company: Ngai Chin Construction
Role: Managing Director

Passion, perseverance and people-first leadership goes a long way in the construction industry. Just ask Anthony Tan, whose meteoric rise to Managing Director of Singapore firm Ngai Chin Construction is inspired and inspiring in equal measure.

When you work in the construction industry, it’s practically a given you’ll end up alongside visionaries, creatives, rare talent and innovative thinkers. This is, after all, the industry that shapes our cities and, ultimately, our world. It’s no surprise that it attracts the best and brightest in the field.

That’s the feeling of Anthony Tan, Managing Director of leading Singapore builder Ngai Chin Construction, who says the opportunity to collaborate on diverse projects with a team of talented and driven individuals is a constant inspiration.

“There’s a passion for excellence in the company that keeps me going,” Tan tells The CEO Magazine.

“It’s been there throughout my journey within Ngai Chin. And it’s not just my coworkers; I’ve also learned a lot from my clients, my consultants and my business partners.”

“There’s a new generation coming in, and I want them to feel comfortable, happy and willing to enter my office.”

When Tan joined Ngai Chin in 2016, he was fresh from a role as a construction coordinator. His new position as Project Executive had him eager to learn and contribute to the team.

“I worked hard early on to deliver projects, and I think I even exceeded client expectations,” he says. “I love challenges, especially when they contribute to my career progression.

“It took me two years to go from Project Executive to Project Manager, and eventually I became Production Director, all with the guidance and support of my mentors and colleagues along the way.”

Strong building blocks
In early 2025, just shy of a decade with the company, Tan was elevated to Managing Director. If his rise through the ranks of Ngai Chin seemed unstoppable before, nothing has changed.

“Straight away, I started trying to build an even stronger team in every department and improve communication so everyone could understand one another,” he says. “I know all my colleagues here after nine years, but I want to get to know them even better.”

That means meeting almost every day to discuss the current scope of each team and determine where Tan’s attention and support can best be applied.

“There’s always room for improvement,” Tan says. “There’s a new generation coming in, and I want them to feel comfortable, happy and willing to enter my office.

“It should be a stress-free place, which is why I organize regular meetings where they can voice anything they want. I’ll support them or give guidance the best I can.”

That support may be required on any given project, from renovations to joinery to bespoke furniture manufacturing to project management. Ngai Chin’s portfolio, which focuses on commercial office space interior fitouts, is deceptively deep and impressively comprehensive.

Innovation and teamwork
Originally a carpentry business when it was formed in 1978, Ngai Chin has cornered the commercial office sector with high-quality workmanship and top-flight organizational ability. Tan fit right into this approach and has elevated it since he arrived nine years ago.

Even then, he admits, things are changing quicker than ever.

“Now there’s AI, even in this industry,” he says.

“So it’s important that we adapt as quickly as possible. We need to be innovative and more willing to invest in new technology than we ever have. The mindset at Ngai Chin is essentially to ‘navigate challenge.’”

That’s not necessarily a bad thing. Tan has never been content to sit and wait for things to happen.

“We need to step in when issues arise; we need to understand even faster,” he adds. “Teamwork is what meets that challenge. If we wait, it helps nobody. It’s always about stepping up and taking action in order to grow.”

“If we slow down, we’re overtaken.”

As digitalization, sustainability, advanced building practices and innovations in materials make themselves known and shape the future of construction, Tan says he and the Ngai Chin team are ready to handle them, but only with a new, fresh mindset.

“In terms of sustainability, we’re committed to reducing our environmental footprint and promoting green practices,” he says. “New buildings everywhere are doing the same. For us, it’s about implementing technologically innovative solutions to reduce energy consumption and even our overheads.”

Trust and talent
Having the policies is only half the battle, however; you need a team willing to put them into practice. Tan says talk of a talent vacuum in Singapore is exaggerated.

“Everyone has their own talent. It’s up to us to give them a chance and discover what those talents are,” he says. “When we receive new recruits, it’s important to me that they’re willing to learn.

“If not, there’s no point in coming in for us to teach. This is a fast-paced environment, and we need to work on projects as quickly as possible. If we slow down, we’re overtaken.”

That’s also why Ngai Chin strives to cultivate a portfolio of high-quality partners to get jobs done right.

“It’s all about trust,” Tan says. “Whenever we commit to a supplier or a contractor, I’ll negotiate. It might be early payment in exchange for a better price, whatever we can do to build trust and prolong our business relationship.”

“Great leadership empowers others to achieve their potential.”

As such, the company works with a number of top operators from Singapore and beyond, such as Global-Allied, a supplier of quality quartz, granite and marble countertops.

“If the trust is there, if we have a great working relationship spanning many past projects, it’s an important relationship. We value those,” he adds.

Though he’s now in charge of Ngai Chin Construction’s strategic vision, growth and success, Tan says he’s still inspired, even as he inspires others.

“Great leadership is about empowering others to achieve their full potential,” he says. “Everyone can expand on their talent, so it’s about building a culture of excellence, innovation and collaboration that balances creativity with the needs of our clients.”

Leadership isn’t about a power flex, he insists.

“There are many ways to lead, but being very bossy and negative is just a hindrance. True leadership leads,” he affirms.