Constructing Success

Lim Boon Huat
Company: LBD Engineering
Role: CEO

Despite having only recently ascended to the top job, LBD Engineering CEO Lim Boon Huat is already eyeing an ambitious growth pathway for the Singaporean construction specialists. 
It may be the architects who are lauded for their vision and creativity, but without construction companies, their intricate designs would be nothing but black lines on paper.

LBD Engineering is a leading building contractor in Singapore that traces its origins back to 1992. The company’s CEO, Lim Boon Huat, achieved his master’s degree in civil engineering from the National University of Singapore, where he was already crossing paths with the founder of the then-fledgling company he would one day lead.

“I’ve known the founder of LBD Engineering since I graduated,” he tells The CEO Magazine. “The starting company was a wet trade company, which was in the plastering and architectural trade and steadily grew over the years. LBD Construction was incorporated into LBD Engineering when it became a small building company.

“It was in 2021 when the founder told me that they were going to go for A1 status, meaning they had the ambition for the company to start dealing with bigger projects.”

Boon Huat joined LBD Engineering in 2022 as it was embarking on this new path. In less than three years at the company, he proved his capability and moved through the ranks rapidly from Chief Strategy Officer to COO and ultimately earning himself the top job of CEO at the start of 2025.

“Now that I’m a few months into the job, I can say that it comes with big responsibilities,” he reveals.

Taking the top job
Naturally, Boon Huat has found that shifting from an executive position into the role of CEO comes with added expectations. This shift has been exacerbated by the rapid growth of LBD Engineering, as it takes on ever bigger projects.

“Currently, the company has quite a few large-scale projects,” he explains. “It’s something that is both interesting and challenging. Previously, our capacity was much smaller than today. We have grown from two projects when I joined in 2021 to now having seven A1 sites.”

Looking forward, Boon Huat describes LBD Engineering’s plans to keep growing, which include launching projects of its own.

“Our focus now is to expand our project team so that we are able to take up more jobs confidently,” he says.

“Our overarching vision will take a few years to be fully realized, but establishing our project team and our project directors is the foundation. Once they are aligned with our direction and able to perform as a strong core team, then we can look to move into the next phase.”

Boon Huat is eager to lead the company into this new challenge within the construction sector but knows that patience is a virtue.

“Moving forward, LBD will definitely want to try our hands at being developers,” he says. “Right now we are building up our resources, so once we are ready with the right team and the right market timing, we will move forward.”

People and planet-friendly
Like any successful CEO, Boon Huat understands that the targets he sets for the company can’t be achieved without the skill and commitment of his team of employees. Because of this, he is investing in his people to create the improvements and innovations that will drive the company forward.

“Innovation has to come from the people who actually do the work, as they are the ones who can best uncover better, more efficient ways of working,” Boon Huat says. “Therefore, we have to train and give guidance to our team by sending them on courses that will improve and enrich themselves.

“We actually set aside an internal budget for our own staff training, and we will continue to invest in this going forward, as well as investing in our HR team.”

Boon Huat also emphasizes his desire to keep LBD Engineering’s staff retention rates high.

“We want to keep developing the careers of our middle and higher-level managers because as they grow and develop within the company, they are also helping to take the company to new heights,” he points out.

“This is why we want to help people uncover their potential.”

Boon Huat reflects that being able to understand the perspective of his employees is one of his core leadership skills – one that is vital for any effective leader.

“To be a high-level leader, you have to connect to the people at every level of the company, especially the people down the hierarchy line,” he advises.

“To truly understand how the team works and how they function, you have to take a step in and see for yourself.”

And although the desire to grow LBD Engineering is unquestionably strong, Boon Huat explains that it should never come at the cost of the planet.

“Sustainability is central to our plans moving forward in line with what our government is planning for,” he says.

“We have to make sure that whatever resources we have, and whatever direction I plan to take, we always fall back on being sustainable. Our expertise must be applied in the direction of sustainable growth.”

Strategic partnerships
Discussing the value of LBD Engineering’s strategic partnerships, Boon Huat believes that helping its partners achieve success is a demonstration of its own success.

“If you represent a company well, it’s a reflection of yourself,” he note. “If you can represent whoever you work with in a positive manner, then the impression you give of yourself will be positive. And of course, this approach will create a positive relationship going forward.”

Thanks to the support of trusted partners, such as VEngineers Consultancy, Nam Lee Pressed Metal and JLFC, Boon Huat is confident he can guide LBD Engineering to continued success.

“Ever since joining, there’s been no looking back – I’m only looking forward,” he says. “Now it’s my turn to steer the company to new heights and into a new era.”